so a couple months ago I did a video
titled 8 ways to prepare for the next
market crash that video was coming from
the standpoint of the investor how for
you to prepare as an investor when the
market crash takes place many of you
said well Pat what about me as the
entrepreneur what do I do to prepare for
the next market crash as the
entrepreneur so today in this video I'm
gonna give you 10 ways to make millions
during the next market crash so a couple
days ago I was at Las Vegas at the
Venetian spending some time with other
seals about 6070 CEOs from the insurance
and a financial industry and we were
talking about different kind of things
cybersecurity preparation opportunity
and one of the topics came up was how
are you preparing yourself for the next
market crash and so this person's wall
you know I think it's gonna go for
another couple more years and I'm trying
to capitalize it because we're making so
much money right now this other person
saying this so it sparked a whole
different conversation and then for me I
went back and I remembered a few
different conversations one of them I'll
share with you it was a drive up to Lake
Arrowhead to someone's house we had a
session in old 506 that reminded me
exactly what took place with myself and
another entrepreneur the decision-making
process during that time that led to
things changing 13 14 15 years later but
before I share that story with you I
want to first share six time periods
with you that will give you an idea
about when the next market crash should
be taking place okay so here's what we
have these are six of the longest
economic expansions
we've ever had in the last 118 years in
the US since 1900 here's what we're
looking at number six is seventy four
months the US housing bubble one from
November of 2001 lasted till December of
2007 by the way I remember this date
vividly I went to the biggest mortgage
shop in San Fernando Valley off of
Canoga right off the 101 freeway was a
30,000 square foot company office I know
the name they shut down November of 2007
a month before this took place because
everybody saw what was going on with
Nina you know pick up pick a payment
mortgage all this other stuff I remember
this vividly watches World War 2 81
months it went from June of 1938
to February 1945 next ninety three
months Reaganomics Cold War the one from
November 1982 to July of 1990 Vietnam
108 months is what it lasted February of
61 to December of 1969 the second
longest second longest ever in the last
hundred eighteen years is the current
one 115 months it's gone from June of oh
nine till today and then obviously
number one is a tech bubble from March
lasted to March up Oh 122 months so we
got a hundred and fifteen months we're
going right now
this is like hundred and fifteen months
of you constantly growing your business
eventually something happens
historically we have a crisis that
happens every five years but we have a
massive crisis that happens about every
decade and then every 20 years something
pretty wild happens that impacts
thousands of people's lives so now what
typically happens during these times you
got to realize as the market is
expanding the way it has during these
times we get greedy we get soft we lose
our edge right now if you're an
entrepreneur you're watching this and
you're saying Pat I don't really get it
what's this got to do with anything
billions if not trillions are made post
post these timelines not just during a
lot of people make money and you know
right this wave but the people that make
a lot of money do it post I'll give you
a perfect idea
this happens March of a one six months
later I got into the financial industry
when Morgan Stanley Dean Witter
nobody wanted to get into stocks bonds
mutual funds that's when I got it this
happened with the housing bubble
December of Oh seven sixteen seventeen
months later I go and negotiate a big
contract with one of the largest
insurance companies in the world at a
time where nobody was doing it and
everybody called us crazy but these are
the opportunities and obviously a lot of
money's been made so having said that
let's talk about the ten points how do
you make millions during these times
number one you gotta monetize fear let
me explain to what I mean by monetize
fear monetize fear is not just you you
have to sit there and ask yourself when
this happens in my industry as an
entrepreneur how can I modern out
monetize fear on everybody and what kind
of fear they're gonna have for exam
how are my clients gonna be afraid how
can i monetize that and help them out
how are my partner's gonna be afraid how
how are my competitors going to be
afraid how can i monetize that
how are my vendors are gonna be afraid
how can i monetize that every one of the
fears when it comes down to this you
gotta monetize that some people say that
I hear this guy say monetize fear yes of
course you monetize fear that's what you
do during business you become the
solution for it point number two you
exploit the unprepared now some people
say Pat that word exploit I don't like
that word exploit isn't that a negative
word by the way they use it in sports
all the time don't they say you just saw
such-and-such
exploit their defense exploit their lack
of offense exploit their lack of
pitching exploit their lack of pitch
hitting exploit their lack of coaching
exploit whatever the weakness the
opponent ask when this happens you gotta
exploit the cocky because every industry
has the cocky and what happens when the
market goes up people show up later
people get more casual people get more
comfortable people get more confident
people get more cocky and this is a
perfect time to prepare yourself for now
here's what you got to realize if you
knew for a fact the market crash is
gonna happen next six months 115 months
so I know 22 months if you knew exactly
in your industry this is gonna happen
next seven months how would you be
prepared for it have you thought about
it that's the whole idea about
exploiting the unprepared who are cocky
assume none of your competitors are
gonna watch this video assume not
everyone's gonna sit and watch this
video but you are watching this video
how can you take advantage that
opportunity for yourself
number three deliver comfort let me
explain what I mean by deliver comfort
when crisis happens this is when heroes
are born this is when you can bring
comfort to a client to an investor to a
competitor to an employee to a
salesperson to a vendor to so many
different people by delivering comfort
delivering security delivering is a
safety net when this takes place you
deliver comfort so ask the question in
my industry huh what do I do
how many gas business I'm in this
business
I'm in real estate business up how can I
deliver security to X Y & Z you saw a
lot of banks that were saying look
because of what took place with 911 oh
because of what's taking place with the
mortgage crisis we will go ahead and
forgive your mortgage payment for 90
days they delivered comfort during the
time like this and some other companies
who weren't delivering comfort guess
what happened to them
what a cold company come to us we'll
deliver comfort because we'll forgive
your payment for three months cuz we
know what it is to go through tough
times that delivering comfort gets loyal
customers number four network like Jerry
Maguire let me explain what I mean by
this if you've seen the movie Jerry
Maguire the famous line you know show me
the money with Cuba Gooding jr. and this
story is about Jerry Maguire being a
sports agent and it's working for big
agency and he writes this big report in
the middle of the night and he sends it
and he goes to work the next day he's
afraid like everyone's gonna look at him
like he's funny so he eventually gets
fired everybody takes his clients then
there's a scene where Jerry is trying to
say this business is about relationships
and he takes it back on wanting to be
really having a relationship with his
clients then you realize this everyone's
coming back because his opponent looked
at everybody as a dollar amount of
renewing contract and there's a famous
scene where the client one of the
players is with its agent that was all
about the money he sees this celebration
of Jerry Maguire and Cuba Gooding jr. in
the scene and this guy says how come we
don't hug the agent goes to hug him he
elbows them like this hey get off me
right that is a perfect example of a
time like this one this takes place this
is when you go and meet with every
single one of your clients you go shake
their hands you go sit down and talk to
them
how you doing a lot of times a lot of
times when a market crash takes place
people are afraid of the phone calls
people are afraid to pick up the phone
calls people don't want to talk to the
clients they're afraid that the clients
are upset of course they're upset of
course they're afraid of course they're
panicking but it's the perfect time for
you to go Network like Jerry Maguire and
get those relationship to be stronger
saying listen John this wasn't easy to
pick up the call I know this is a
difficult time but I want you to know
something we're gonna go through this
together here let me share with you what
I'm thinking about here's what I have in
mind what we're doing with the rest of
our clients and you walk through it that
doesn't mean they're going
be happy with everything that's taking
place it just means they realize you're
in the trenches with them cannot tell
you how much this helps you create
loyalty with your clients as well my
next one point number five double down
on your message let me explain to what I
mean by this whatever your cause is for
your company or your business your small
business whatever you do double down on
telling that message over and over again
you may need to adjust your story
slightly accordingly to the market crash
but double down on your message here's
what we do for families here's what we
do as a company this is what we stand
for this is our history this is what
we're doing long-term this is our
mission vision double down on your
message non-stop because it keeps
everybody on your team focused on the
bigger picture rather than all the small
stuff that's taking place on a daily
basis number six cut the fat before the
crash let me explain to what I mean by
cut the fat before the crash you have
time to cut the fat
listen your brain say you got two brains
here's your brain here's somebody else's
brain your brain during the crash it's
trying to handle 42 different issues in
your mind because you didn't cut the fat
your opponent's brain has only nine
issues to worry about have you ever sat
in a meeting with an employee with a
customer with a job interview with
anybody and you're speaking to them and
that person is talking to you and for
like seven minutes you're not in the
room you're thinking about how you're
gonna fix your mortgage you're thinking
about how you're gonna handle that
payment you're gonna make you're
thinking about how you're gonna help out
financially but all the problems you're
facing financially you're not present in
that moment another person who is
present in the moment of that
appointment they're going to outdo you
because they cut the fat before the
crash that took place I'll give you a
perfect story one day I'm driving up I'm
coming up in the industry I'm probably
making a couple hundred thousand dollars
here at this time I think like oh six
you know and we're going up in this
Escalade and we're going to Lake your
hood it's myself and everybody in this
car is ahead of me I'm like the fifth
guy in the car there's a guy sitting to
my left there's a guy sitting over here
Latino guy african-american guy and
another guy sitting over here
okay we're driving up the guy sitting
over here in the front is the number one
guy in the car
he's got a couple million dollars in the
bank account he's telling his mentor hey
I'm thinking about buying this house
it's a four million dollar house I want
to build it up it's in Glendora Hills
it's a beautiful home I want to build
this place up and it's so exciting and
he start telling all those stuff
he asks his mentor what do you think I
should do his mentor doesn't give him at
any advice he asks his number-one
competitor guys sitting to my left what
do you think he should do he says to him
he says you know what you you've been
working very hard I mean all this hard
work you've been putting into this
business I think you should go out and
buy your house what is the whole purpose
of making all this money go build this
house go do all this other stuff you
deserve it you should get it it's like
oh okay that's how I feel I should get
it then he his mentor says Patrick what
do you think he should do and I said
it's probably the biggest mistake you'll
make in your career he says why is that
I said do you realize the amount of
momentum you have in your business right
now it's something none of us have ever
seen before you have so much momentum
you're making two three four hundred
thousand dollars per month and you want
to take time away from this momentum to
build a house think about if you go
three more years with this momentum you
can buy ten of those homes but your
focus on this house I don't think it's a
good decision I think it's a mistake you
know who ends up listening to instant
listen to this guy do you know what ends
up happening he builds the house
beautiful house beautiful home gorgeous
home we went to the house beautiful
property post that event the entire
focus has been to make sure he doesn't
lose that house now imagine say the
focus was in a different place you drove
momentum you could have grown your
business when the market crash came the
mortgage crisis came he was affected how
many things you think was on his mind
you think was thinking how am I gonna
save this house I put a million and half
dollars downpayment on this house this
house had to do this have to do that so
he may have saved his two million dollar
house fast forward ten years later maybe
he's worked five million dollars maybe
three million dollars and a lot of
people who focus on expanding their
business and cut the fat they're worth a
few hundred million dollars what's the
difference
cut the fat before the market crash do
not let fat consume your brain
because it's so draining when you're
trying to save yourself from losing
everything in you're hanging on to
things you're hanging on to things that
is a draining place to be versus I'm
playing loose I'm good I'm tight I'm
lean I'm playing offense I'm gonna be
good to go
number seven team up with our line
players team up with somebody else
that's aligned with your vision meaning
so your competitor you going up and
saying you know what I like this guy
we're thinking the same way let's run
together during a market crash teaming
up with the right person
double eights and accelerate your speed
if you team up with the right person
during the market crash you strengthen
each other it doesn't just become twice
the strength it becomes three four times
the strength because it's compounding to
the ideas together that person strengths
your strengths so find a good aligned
partner to team up with to accelerate
your speed during a market crash number
eight double down on positive
distractions listen we hear a lot of
things about distractions distractions
don't be distracted don't be distracted
don't be distracted I love to be
distracted except I like positive
distractions when people say
distractions their time on negative
distractions during the market crash
your family's distracted your employees
are distracted your vendors are
distracted your partner's are distracted
your staff is distracted everybody is
distracted and worried give situations
to create positive distractions take
them to a park go bowling take him to
movies go do a game bring the fun
exciting aspect to it let's do something
together let's go out bring positive
distractions to the people you're
running with so their brain is not
consumed by all the negative
distractions from the outside it keeps
morale high and if he keeps morale high
eventually when the market crash goes by
everybody forgot about all the
negativities you've overcome at you
you're winning dominating your
marketplace whatever industry you're
part of in last but not least number
nine I told you ten but I'll give you
number nine equip your team with all
possible audibles let me explain to what
I mean have a meeting with your team
almost like a football coach and create
a playbook if this happens with the
market will do this if this happens here
we do this if that happens we'll do
these three things if that happens we
can do this if this happens we do this
what about this happens we do this and
talk amongst each other and allow your
main executive salespeople leader
to bring up whatever that could possibly
happen and identify audibles hey what do
you think we need to be know if we do
this I will do this I would do that I
would do this I would call this person I
would talk to that person I would team
up with the Spurs I would do that I'll
be honorable so the more audibles you
have laid out amongst everybody when
this comes no one's worried and last but
not least point number 10 is a point
that can make you millions during the
next market crash but it's not a point
that I'll be sharing in this video
because point number 10 will only be
shared at the vault conference that I'll
be hosting here in Dallas Texas from May
1st to May 4th entrepreneurs executives
CEOs salespeople marketers from 36
different countries have already
registered for this event we'll be
talking about strategies that are going
to help you grow during good and bad
times problem solving formula that'll be
unveiling at this event called a solve X
formula that'll help you solve issues in
the boardroom the bedroom or the war
room no matter where you're at and then
you identifying exactly what the next
three steps you need to take to grow
your business by the way if you are
attending the vault conference and if
you haven't registered yet click on a
link you're here to get registered if
you want today's episode in a PDF format
sent to you for free
Senate X seven four seven two six zero
eight four six one once again text seven
four seven two six zero eight four six
one and if you are still wanting to
watch the other video about how to
prepare for the next market crash as an
investor click on the link over here or
if you're wondering about what you can
offer on what's taking place in China
click on a link over here thanks for
watching everybody take care bye bye